When you're dealing with complex systems, simple-minded solutions are almost always wrong solutions. You don't get anywhere by applying the slogan-du-jour. You do get somewhere by facing up to difficult problems and finding an intelligent approach that takes all aspects of the situation into account. That solution might even be simple, but it won't be simple-minded. -- Mike Loukides (https://www.oreilly.com/radar/what-is-devops-yet-again/)

Tato, naucis ma programovat? Ja zatial programujem len Office aj to sa viem len prihlasit. -- Elka, Oktober 2024

It’s gone from a pet project to a mission with a purpose 😊. -- Troy Hunt (about https://haveibeenpwned.com)

But I think the real lesson is that you do need to be fluent in the details. Whether you let a language model write your code in large chunks or one line at a time, if you don’t know what you’re doing, either approach will get you in trouble sooner rather than later. -- Mike Loukides, 07/2024 (https://www.oreilly.com/radar/programming-fluency-and-ai/)

Ja chcem byť na karnevale Harabin. -- Matu, 2024

Mamina ty chod k tatinovi, k svojmu manzelovi. -- Matu, Oktober 2010

To čo máš na prste? Som si zle zastrihol necht. Ty si sám strihaš nechty? -- Dadko, 2023

Tato, ty by si mohol robiť v kostole. -- Matu, Vianoce 2023

(Tesne po zachvate hnevu) Ale ja mam pravo vyjadrit svoje emocie! -- Dadko, Marec 2024

If you have a tough question that you can't answer, start by tackling a simpler question that you can't answer. -- Max Tegmark

You need to constrain yourself to solving problems mostly, but not exclusively, with a small, specific set of standard tools. By doing this over time we become experts in them. Then, we are able to build better and faster solutions from them. -- Rich Archbold (https://www.intercom.com/blog/run-less-software)

The problem with the "best tool for the job" thinking is that it makes myopic view of the words "best" and "job". Your job is keeping the company in business, go damn it. And the "best" tool is the one that occupies the "least worst" position for as many of your problems as possible. -- Dan MacKinley (https://mcfunley.com/choose-boring-technology)

Conventional engineering is about making things work. It's the genesis of the term "hack," as in "he worked all night and hacked the code together.". The code works; it doesn't matter what it looks like. Security engineering is different; it's about making sure things don't do something they shouldn't. -- Bruce Schneier (https://www.schneier.com/essays/archives/1999/10/risks_of_relying_on.html)

Duplication is better than complication. -- John Arundel (Explore Go Cryptography)

Besides just extending the state of the art, there existed the quest for elegance in design and problem solving. A lovely definition for elegance is "power cloaked in simplicity." The freedom of the Bell Labs environment led to an elegant system, not just a functional one. -- Arnold Robbins & Nelson H. F. Beebe: Classic Shell Scripting (2005)

While preparing this talk, I went to the library to find out what people have written about the word "art" through the years; and after spending several fascinating days in the stacks, I came to the conclusion that "art" must be one of the most interesting words in the English language. -- Donald Knuth: Computer programming as an art (1974)

In general, it is best to assume that the network is filled with malevolent entities that will send in packets designed to have the worst possible effect. -- RFC 1122 (1989)

This is the Unix philosophy: Write programs that do one thing and do it well. Write programs to work together. Write programs to handle text streams, because that is a universal interface. -- Doug McIlroy (P. Salus: A quarter century of Unix)

The only thing that ever yielded real security gains was controlling complexity. -- Thomas Dullien

You can't think well without writing well, and you can't write well without reading well. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/read.html)

It’s about to be a great time for security people because there will be more garbage code created in the next 5 years than you can possibly imagine. It’s early times yet, but we’ve seen this movie before. We’re about to make the same mistakes that we made when we went from offline to internet. And then internet to mobile. And then mobile to cloud. And now AI. -- Daniel Miessler: https://danielmiessler.com/p/the-ai-attack-surface-map-v1-0 (2023)

Around half of security professionals got their start outside of IT and we think this should be encouraged. -- CJ Moses from AWS (https://d1.awsstatic.com/Security/Security_Predictions_e-book_2022.pdf)

Like Perl before it, Go is a Swiss Army knife, but one that has stripped off all of the overhead and extra junk that has accreted onto programming platforms over the past few decades. -- https://stackoverflow.blog/2020/11/02/go-golang-learn-fast-programming-languages/

... freedom is the disciplining of desire so as to make the achievement of the good, first possible, then effortless. -- Robert Barron (https://www.wordonfire.org/articles/barron/the-glory-of-god-is-a-human-being-fully-alive/)

I love best practices IF they are cool stuff from a dozen sources inside and outside the company and industry, available for each of us to learn from and steal from. I hate best practices when mimicry is demanded - "Do it this way, or else!" -- Tom Peters, The Little Big Things – 163 Ways to Pursue EXCELLENCE

If we can figure out how to break down our unsolved problems into a bunch of mini-problems that have already been solved by existing packages, we're 90% done. -- John Arundel (https://bitfieldconsulting.com/golang/packages)

Humility does not mean having a low opinion of ourselves. It means having no opinion of ourselves -- Peter Kreeft (https://www.wordonfire.org/articles/contributors/humility-is-the-grammar-of-being/)

Yes, science, technology, engineering, and mathematics will facilitate our movement and give us nicer homes to live in and generally make our lives easier—but they won’t tell us what to do when we get to our destinations or how to live in our comfortable houses or how to fill up the time that ease of life provides. To find answers to those questions, we read Plato, Jeremiah, St. Paul, Shakespeare, Dante, and Eliot; we look at Michelangelo, Picasso, and Rembrandt; and we listen to Mozart, Bach, and Stravinsky. In a word, we do the liberal arts. -- Robert Barron (https://www.wordonfire.org/articles/barron/dont-give-up-on-the-liberal-arts/)

Everyone is secretly thinking "I hope nobody finds out I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing!" -- John Arundel: Code For Your Life

Pre mňa nie je zábava jesť koláče a tancovať ale zábava je hrať fotbal. -- Dadko, Februar 2023

This is not to say there's no scope for breathtaking elegance and style in software engineering; of course there is. But it's at the design level, not individual lines of code. -- John Arundel (https://bitfieldconsulting.com/golang/commandments)

If the authors can explain the packages' API and its design well to you, the user, in the documentation, that increases the likelihood they have explained the implementation well to the computer, in the source code. -- Russ Cox (https://research.swtch.com/deps)

The only way to evaluate the security of a system is to analyze it. This is a time consuming and expensive process ... -- Bruce Schneier (https://www.schneier.com/essays/archives/1999/11/a_plea_for_simplicit.html)

The worst enemy of security is complexity. -- Bruce Schneier (https://www.schneier.com/essays/archives/1999/11/a_plea_for_simplicit.html)

Get out of your silo. Talk to people. You'll always get better results. -- Tom Limoncelli (https://everythingsysadmin.com/2015/11/operations-and-big-o-analysis.html)

Oh the horror! Please don't make me be a human with social skills! I want to be a coder that lives in total isolation! No you don't. You want to be a human that lives in a community that develops awesome processes that are driven by software. -- Tom Limoncelli (https://everythingsysadmin.com/2015/11/operations-and-big-o-analysis.html)

Most important, perhaps, I didn't have a design when I started, I just began to code and saw what developed. -- Rob Pike (https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spr09/cos333/beautiful.html)

Well, I’ve been a software engineer since 21 and I’m 62 and still at it, with no plans to stop any time soon. I don’t think there’s a maximum age as long as you can build useful pieces of software, whatever they are. -- Dave Combs, Staff Software Engineer at LinkedIn (https://qr.ae/pvMmNx)

(U babky Bozky) Tato, kedy uz pojdete domov? Dady a ty nie si s nami rad? Ved s vami som uz 6 rokov! -- Dadko, Jul 2022

Any system that is successful needs to grow and change as new use cases emerge or existing ones change. -- kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api

Without strategy, execution is aimless. Without execution, strategy is useless. -- Morris Chang (Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company)

So it's not just fastidiousness that makes good hackers avoid nasty little problems. It's more a question of self-preservation. Working on nasty little problems makes you stupid. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html)

When you decide what infrastructure to use for a project, you're not just making a technical decision. You're also making a social decision, and this may be the more important of the two. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html)

The pointy-haired boss is a manager who doesn't program. So the surest way to avoid becoming him is to stay a programmer. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/raq.html)

... no one who hasn't written about a topic has fully formed ideas about it. And someone who never writes has no fully formed ideas about anything nontrivial. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/words.html)

I'll often spend 2 weeks on an essay and reread drafts 50 times. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/words.html)

Writing about something, even something you know well, usually shows you that you didn't know it as well as you thought. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/words.html)

If you're thinking without writing, you only think you're thinking. -- Leslie Lamport

People do not seem to realize that their opinion of the world is also a confession of character. -- Ralph Waldo Emerson

Go's garbage collector recycles unused memory, but do not assume it will release unused operating system resources like open files and network connections. They should be closed explicitly. -- The Go Programming Language

To do something well you have to love it. So to the extent you can preserve hacking as something you love, you are likely to do it well. Try to keep the sense of wonder you had about programming [computers] at age 14. If you're worried that your current job is rotting your brain, it probably is. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html)

... make the following deal with yourself: you never have to work on boring projects (unless your family will starve otherwise), and in return, you'll never allow yourself to do a half-assed job. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html)

As software engineers, we already know that a too-rigid plan rarely survives contact with reality. -- John Arundel (https://bitfieldconsulting.com/golang/career)

Start seeing your current work not as a simple exchange of your time for their money, but rather as an opportunity to find out what you're good at, and to get better. -- John Arundel (https://bitfieldconsulting.com/golang/career)

As software engineers, we're constantly making detailed, elaborate plans for computers to execute. Isn't it kind of weird that we rarely give a moment's thought to the program we want to write for ourselves? -- John Arundel (https://bitfieldconsulting.com/golang/career)

Tato ty sa máš, ty môžeš stále spať s mamou. -- Matu, Februar 2022

And when I saw him I knew that Slash was dead. -- Chris Stefanick (https://youtu.be/QErx5PHHnsY)

Tato, preco si vzdy rano umyvas pazuchy? Aby som vonal. A tebe sa v noci vzdy vysmradia? -- Elka, Februar 2022

We really did have everything, didn't we? -- Randall Mindy

The study of philosophy is not the study of what men have opined, but of what is the truth. -- St. Thomas Aquinas

And both Lewis and von Hildebrand harken in this sense back to Aristotle who said that the aim of education is to make the pupil like and dislike what he ought. In short, feelings and affections should be trained and not simply valorized. -- Robert Barron (https://www.wordonfire.org/resources/article/breaking-out-of-the-prison-of-self-invention)

So don't let people seduce you with the rhetoric of self-invention and being free to make up one's own values. In the final analysis, there is no project duller and more suffocating than that. -- Robert Barron (https://www.wordonfire.org/resources/article/breaking-out-of-the-prison-of-self-invention)

But even if you aren’t very creative, and/or lack the education and/or experience to properly build massive applications, you should still be proud to be a programmer. Solving problems using code is a superpower by itself. -- Daniel Miessler (https://danielmiessler.com/study/programmer_hacker_developer/)

As a beginner, or even as an advanced practitioner, nobody should ever ask you what you’re working on and you say, “Nothing.” Unless you’re taking a break in-between, of course. Projects tend to cross significantly into programming. The idea is that you come up with a tool or utility that might be useful to people, and you go and make it. -- Daniel Miessler (https://danielmiessler.com/blog/build-successful-infosec-career/)

In anything at all, perfection is finally attained not when there is no longer anything to add, but when there is no longer anything to take away, when a body has been stripped down to its nakedness. -- Antoine de Saint Exupery (Wind, Sand and Stars)

Almost all advice is contextual, yet it is rarely delivered with any context. Without understanding the context, the advice is meaningless, or even worse, harmful. We may be the culmination of our experiences, but we view them through the lens of the present. -- Justin Etheredge (https://www.simplethread.com/20-things-ive-learned-in-my-20-years-as-a-software-engineer/)

Only three things happen naturally in organizations: friction, confusion, and underperformance. Everything else requires leadership. -- Peter Drucker

If your work is not your favorite thing to do, you'll have terrible problems with procrastination. You'll have to force yourself to work, and when you resort to that the results are distinctly inferior. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/love.html)

... anything you work on changes you. If you work too long on tedious stuff, it will rot your brain. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/love.html)

... ambitious projects are by definition close to the limits of your capacity. A small decrease in morale is enough to kill them off. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/makersschedule.html)

A ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are built for. -- John A. Shedd

We're not competitor obsessed, we're customer obsessed. We start with what the customer needs and we work backwards. -- Jeff Bezos, Amazon

Without data, you're just another person with an opinion. -- W. Edwards Deming

Reactions from users count heavily here; a cycle of prototyping, experiment, user feedback, and further refinement is most effective. -- The Practice of Programming

The insight necessary to find the right solution comes only with a combination of thought and experience; pure introspection will not produce a good system, nor will pure hacking. -- The Practice of Programming

Simplicity and clarity are first and most important, since almost everything else follows from them. -- The Practice of Programming

It is not possible to create a perfect program the first time. -- The Practice of Programming

The primary job of any software engineer is delivering value. Very few software developers understand this, even fewer internalize it. -- Justin Etheredge (https://www.simplethread.com/20-things-ive-learned-in-my-20-years-as-a-software-engineer/)

Practice yourself, for heaven’s sake, in little things; and thence proceed to greater. -- Epictetus (Discourses IV.i)

A primary cause of software complexity is that vendors uncritically adopt almost any feature that users want. People seem to misinterpret complexity as sophistication. The incomprehensible should cause suspicion rather than admiration. -- Niklaus Wirth, A Plea for Lean Software (1995)

We started off with the idea that all three of us had to be talked into every feature in the language, so there was no extraneous garbage put into the language for any reason. -- Ken Thompson (2011)

When you try to break a complex problem down you want to break it down into as few parts as you can and you want them to be as independend as they can be. -- Dan Ingalls, Object Oriented Programming (1989)

If any part of a system depends on the internals of another part, then complexity increases as the square of the size of the system. -- Dan Ingalls, Object Oriented Programming (1989)

The intuition helps me to focus my analysis, but it doesn't eliminate the need for analysis. -- John Ousterhout (https://web.stanford.edu/~ouster/cgi-bin/sayings.php)

It is common for people to try out management at some point, realize they don't enjoy it, and go back to the technical track. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

The most important property of a program is whether it accomplishes the intention of its user. -- C.A.R. Hoare, Communications of the ACM (1969)

(Plaz vo Vlasici) Ja som videl cajku s dvomi hlavami. Jednu mala vpredu a druhu vzadu. -- Dadko, Jul 2021

Being an introvert is not an excuse for making no effort to treat people like real human beings, however. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

(5:30) Elka, preco tu tak skoro buntosis? Lebo mna nebavi spat. Ja som polku noci spala a polku bola hore. -- Elka, Jun 2021

Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy. -- Kahlil Gibran

Serva ordinem et ordo servabit te.

At some point, to progress in your career, you’ll probably need to do the tech lead job, even if you’re interested in staying on the individual contributor (nonmanagement) career path. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

I have a strong opinion on pushing people into management roles, which is that you shouldn’t do it. If you’re not ready to take on management-type responsibilities, don’t take them on. There’s nothing wrong with staying deep in the technology, especially if you feel like you still have a lot to learn before you become an expert. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

Making things easy to do is a false economy. Focus on making things easy to understand and the rest will follow. -- Peter Bourgon (Golang, Soundcloud, Fastly)

Mnohý paradox nám skříží cestu a je třeba s ním srovnat krok. Nezahánět ho, nesnažit se o logickou vazbu. Zvyknout si na to, že musí platit naráz dvě věci, které si na první pohled protiřečí. -- Karel Satoria

There are two kinds of software projects; those that fail, and those that turn into legacy horrors. -- Peter Weinberger (inventor of AWK)

Code is read many more times than it is written. -- Dave Cheney

I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times. -- Bruce Lee

That situation inside Google has a lot in common with large scale, modern open source development as practiced on sites like GitHub. Because of this, Go is a great fit for open source projects, helping them accept and manage contributions from a large community over a long period of time. -- Russ Cox (https://blog.golang.org/open-source)

In go, we have explicitly tried not to solve everything. Instead, we've tried to do just enough that you can built your own custom solutions easily. -- Russ Cox (https://blog.golang.org/open-source)

I would've never built Perkeep had I needed to fight both its internal complexity and the complexity imposed on me by other contender languages/environments at the time. -- Brad Fitzpatrick (http://bradfitz.com/2020/01/30/joining-tailscale)

All that is to say, simplicity is not only refreshing, but it also enables. Go made me feel productive in a way I hadn't felt in many years where everything just felt like it was getting more complex. -- Brad Fitzpatrick (http://bradfitz.com/2020/01/30/joining-tailscale)

I now value simplicity above almost all else and tolerate complexity only when it's well isolated, well documented, well tested, and necessary to make things simpler overall at other layers for most people. -- Brad Fitzpatrick (http://bradfitz.com/2020/01/30/joining-tailscale)

The most effective way for me was to understand Go deeply and then use it in the real-world to solve problems. -- Inanc Gumus (https://golangweekly.com/issues/351)

E-mail is a wonderful thing for people whose role in life is to be on top of things. But not for me; my role is to be on the bottom of things. What I do takes long hours of studying and uninterruptible concentration. -- Donald Knuth (https://www.red-gate.com/simple-talk/opinion/geek-of-the-week/donald-knuth-geek-of-the-week/)

Computing may someday be organized as a public utility just as the telephone system is a public utility. Each subscriber needs to pay only for the capacity he actually uses, but he has access to all programming languages characteristic of a very large system … Certain subscribers might offer service to other subscribers … The computer utility could become the basis of a new and important industry. -- John MacCarthy (1961)

I like finding and fixing bugs; they’re puzzles. People in this profession treat them as some sort of character flaw or major irritation, but they’re just part of the business. Think of them in the right way and they can be fun. -- Rob Pike (https://www.red-gate.com/simple-talk/opinion/geek-of-the-week/rob-pike-geek-of-the-week/)

And in both [prose and code] I do a great deal of rereading and rewriting. The first draft, even if correct, is rarely ‘right’. -- Rob Pike (https://www.red-gate.com/simple-talk/opinion/geek-of-the-week/rob-pike-geek-of-the-week/)

The important thing is not what you know, but knowing how you learn more. It's not knowing the right answer; it's knowing how to ask the right questions. -- Larry Wall (https://spu.edu/depts/uc/response/spr2k/wall.html)

Nebadáš, že si hlbinou, ktorú nik a nič nemôže zaplniť? Len plytkí ľudia sú celkom šťastní a spokojní, keď im nechýbajú milované osoby a veci. -- Anton Srholec

Ja mam Covid. Prdol som si a nic necitim. -- Matu, Februar 2021

Dadek, ja som si predstavil, ze lyzicky neexistuju a videl som ako sa to ohlo. -- Matu, Februar 2021

(Pri uspavani) Tato, moj mozog stale rozmysla aj ked spim. Ale Eli, ked spis sa ti vypne. Nie, ty nevies ako ja rozmyslam. Ja proste neviem meditovat lebo stale na nieco myslim. -- Elka, Februar 2021

I think people who write programs do have at least a glimmer of extra insight into the nature of God... because creating a program often means that you have to create a small universe. -- Donald Knuth

We must always take sides. Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. -- Elie Wiesel

Pani ucitelka: Matusko ake je to pre teba mat takto vyucovanie cez internet? Mati: zle, lebo sa nemozem chytat s Jergusom a Viliamom. A ked volam s Viliamom, tak mi to casto seka. -- Matu, Januar 2021

Môj manžel by mal byť ako tatino, ale mal by vedieť variť, mať dlhšie vlasy a pri jedení by mu nemal trčať zadok. Ale tie vlasy nemusia platiť. -- Elka, Január 2021

Mama nemôže zdvíhať ťažké, lebo by jej vypadlo oko. -- Matu, Január 2021

A kolko su styri stvrtiny? Dadko: oval. Elka: jeden kruh. -- Dadko, December 2020

He [Jesus] claimed to be God in human form, God encoded in humanity. -- John Lennox (https://youtu.be/ubDXtrF7uYg)

Tato, ja viem prečo sú banány biele. Tak ich stvoril Ježiš. -- Dadko, November 2020

Vieš čo je to hriech? Nie, ale viem, čo je to hrianka. -- Elka, Október 2020

Unless you are a hyperscaler, an online ad broker or someone else from the 0.01%, there are a lot simpler ways to satisfy your scalability demands - because microservices are anything but simple. -- Uwe Friedrichsen (https://www.ufried.com/blog/microservices_fallacy_2_scalability/)

I’m very lucky that my background, upbringing, parents and career have enabled me to work with people I like and do cool stuff. -- John Graham-Cumming (https://blog.cloudflare.com/helping-to-build-cloudflare-part-1/)

Culture eats strategy for breakfast. -- Peter Drucker (https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/values.md)

Napriek všetkej socializácii ťažisko nášho života môže a má smerovať do rodiny. -- Anton Srholec

Therefore, the things that we do now in this life are of enormous, eternal significance because we will live forever, and those consequences will never end. -- W. L. Craig

Now no feeling can be relied on to last in its full intensity, or even to last at all. -- C. S. Lewis

Elka, co by si chcela, keby si bola kralovna? Ja by som sa spravili taka ista ako som. -- Elka, Semptember 2020

The sensations [emotions] are merely the response of your nervous system. Don’t depend on them. Otherwise when they go and you are once more emotionally flat (as you certainly will be quite soon), you might think that the real thing had gone too. But it won’t. It will be there when you can’t feel it. May even be most operative when you can feel it least. -- C. S. Lewis (https://www.cslewisinstitute.org/The_Real_Gift)

When you feel how depressingly slowly you climb, it's well to remember that Things Take Time. -- Piet Hein (https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Piet_Hein)

The road to wisdom? Well, it's plain and simple to express: Err and err and err again but less and less and less. -- Piet Hein (https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Piet_Hein)

Dadko, vieš o tom, že chlapci majú dve vajíčka na pipikovi? -- Elka, Júl 2020

Plyšáci sú Elkin život. -- Matu zamyslene, Júl 2020

An algorithm must be seen to be believed, and the best way to learn what an algorithm is all about is to try it. The reader should always take pencil and paper and work through an example of each algorithm immediately upon encountering it in the text. This is a simple and painless way to gain an understanding of a given algorithm, and all other approaches are generally unsuccessful. -- The Art of Computer Programming (1997)

The process of preparing programs for a digital computer is especially attractive, not only because it can be economically and scientifically rewarding, but also because it can be an aestethic experience much like composing poetry or music. -- Donald Knuth (1968)

So if you come up with something that makes a little bit of sense and has a little bit of mystery to it, you can fool a lot of people. -- Donald Knuth (Things a computer scientist rarely talks about)

I didn’t choose to be a computer scientist because my main mission in life was to advance computation. I chose computer science simply because I was good at it. For some reason, my peculiar way of thinking correlated well with computers. -- Donald Knuth

Naturally I never agree to give a talk unless I think I have something to say. -- Donald Knuth (Things a computer scientist rarely talks about)

I'm here because computer science is wonderful, but it isn't everything. -- Donald Knuth (Things a computer scientist rarely talks about)

Did the thing I just did make the overall system easier or harder to change? (ETC value) -- The Pragmatic Programmer (2019)

Don't blame someone or something else, or make up an excuse. Don't blame all the problems on a vendor, a programming language, management, or your coworkers. Any and all of these may play a role, but it is up to you to provide solutions, not excuses. -- The Pragmatic Programmer (2019)

No idea went into Go until it had been simplified to its essence and then had clear benefits that justified the complexity being added. -- Russ Cox (https://blog.golang.org/open-source)

A little copying is better than a little dependency. -- Rob Pike (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PAAkCSZUG1c&t=9m28s)

The purpose of software engineering is to control complexity, not to create it. -- Dr. Pamela Zave

Vieš aké mám rád rybky? Lososa a kuriatko. -- Dadko, Máj 2020

Just listen to the voices that understand and share your goals; they're the ones to care about. Not everyone agrees with what you're doing, and that's OK. -- Rob Pike (https://evrone.com/rob-pike-interview)

The best way to avoid burnout is to do something you truly enjoy in an environment that supports you. -- Rob Pike (https://evrone.com/rob-pike-interview)

As the current situation with COVID-19 has once again demonstrated, the Internet has become an integral part of our societies and economies, in ways far beyond what its creators originally envisioned. -- Marco Hogewoning (https://labs.ripe.net/Members/marco_hogewoning/do-we-need-a-new-ip)

Dadko, vsak kvetinky nie su dievcenske. No, napriklad tato tu byva a ma v zahone kvetinky, takze to neni dievcenske. A to neznamena, ze zlta farba je dievcenska, lebo to je zlata. -- Matu/Dadko, April 2020

Pipik je zlozeny z protonov. -- Matu/Dadko, April 2020

Tato a dnes pracujete? Ano. Aj mama? Ano. Aspon nas nebudete rusit (covid home office). -- Dadko, April 2020

Always have systems in place to protect valuable data against catastrophic loss, and be prepared to activate your recovery procedure at short notice. -- ULSAH (2017)

You need immutable, point-in-time backups of critical data that you can revert to as a fallback option. -- ULSAH (2017)

Mama, daj si sluchátka (covid home office). -- Elka, Marec 2020

Tato, ja už som 8 krát narátala do 100 a raz do 174. -- Elka, Marec 2020

Všetci ľudia, ktorí zažili nejaký úspech, vám povedia, že najdôležitejšia je pracovitosť, schopnosť nenechať sa odradiť prvotnými neúspechmi a vytrvalosť. Hovoria to preto, lebo to tak je. -- Júlia Batmendijnová (ultrabežkyna)

Len povrchní ľudia nemajú pochybnosti o sebe. -- Anton Srholec

Ak som presvedčený, že sa musím ešte veľa naučiť, môžem na svete alebo svojom charaktere veľa zmeniť a zlepšiť. -- Anton Srholec

One way of looking at this might be that for 42 years, I've been making small, regular deposits in this bank of experience, education and training. And on January 15, the balance was sufficient so that I could make a very large withdrawal. -- Captain Sullenberger

You don’t have to “master” every skill you ever learn. ... you can usually achieve the goals you set yourself in around 20 hours of deliberate practice. -- Josh Kaufman (https://www.forbes.com/sites/danschawbel/2013/05/30/josh-kaufman-it-takes-20-hours-not-10000-hours-to-learn-a-skill)

I do not know what I may appear to the world, but to myself I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the sea-shore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me. -- Isaac Newton

But everyone has a vested interest in the languages they already know, because (a) it is a lot of work to learn a new language, and (b) programming languages dictate how you think about programs, so it is hard even to conceive of a language more powerful than whatever you're used to. -- Paul Graham (http://www.paulgraham.com/pfaq.html)

If any part of a system depends on the internals of another part, then complexity increases as the square of the size of the system. -- Dan Ingalls (Object Oriented Programming, 1989)

Ľahšie sa nám napreduje, keď vieme, kde je cieľ. Poznanie zmyslu je zdrojom sily. -- Anton Srholec

Tato, jak keď budem prezident, tak rozkážem, aby sa robili len domáce šunky. -- Matu, Január 2020

If you want Perl to be popular because you don't want to use any other language, well, get over that. Learning other languages helps you in your favorite. -- brian d foy

Over the years I moved from writing personal scripts in Go, to personal projects, until I found myself working on a many-hundreds-of-thousands-of-lines project professionally. -- Concurrency in Go

Tati, keby som bol pánboh tak si v Bupi predĺžim čas. -- Matu, December 2019

Nemal som schopnosť vymýšľať ťahy s výkričníkom, ale vedel som ich rozoznať, keď ich zahral niekto iný. -- Martin Mojžiš (30)

Pazucha je moje meno a Smradlavá priezvisko. -- Elka, December 2019

Môj šál nájdem v stratoch a vynálezoch. -- Matu, December 2019

Sme mali taký zeleninový koláčik, že na vrchu bolo zozušené ovocie. -- Elka, November 2019

Without at least a rough understanding of the components and how they interoperate, you are unlikely to be successful at managing any system. -- Managing Kubernetes

Tatino a si si istý, že Soňa je tvoja spolužiačka? Veď jej sa mohla zmeniť pokožka, celá tvár... -- Matu, Október 2019

Najdôležitejší je svet a jedlo. -- Elka, Október 2019

Najdôležitejší je pánbožko lebo on všetko vytvoril. -- Matu, Október 2019

Poranil som si fuckera. -- Matu, Október 2019

If you want to work on big things, you seem to have to trick yourself into doing it. You have to work on small things that could grow into big things, or work on successively larger things, or split the moral load with collaborators. It's not a sign of weakness to depend on such tricks. -- Paul Graham (http://paulgraham.com/procrastination.html)

Of course, the main reason people find it difficult to work on a particular problem is that they don't enjoy it. -- Paul Graham (http://paulgraham.com/procrastination.html)

What's the best thing you could be working on, and why aren't you? -- Paul Graham (http://paulgraham.com/procrastination.html)

Videla som v lese na vyprave priklincovaneho, neviem ci to bol boh alebo jezis. -- Elka, September 2019

For like a shaft, clear and cold, the thought pierced him that in the end the Shadow was only small and passing thing: there was light and high beauty for ever beyond its reach. -- The Return of the King

I never hoped to get across. I can't see any hope of it now. But I've still got to do the best I can. -- Frodo Baggins, The Return of the King

If you're developing programs in a field that's new to you, you must find out what's already known, lest you waste your time doing poorly what others have already done well. -- The Practice of Programming

If you are not sure why it works, you won't know why it fails. -- The Pragmatic Programmer (2019)

For a metric to be useful, you need to be able to aggregate it somehow. The rule of thumb is that either summing or averaging across a metric should produce a meaningful result. -- Prometheus: Up & Running (2018)

In general, all methods on a given type should have either value or pointer receivers, but not a mixture of both. -- A Tour of Go (https://tour.golang.org/methods/8)

Debugging is a sensitive, emotional subject for many developers. Instead of attacking it as a puzzle to be solved, you may encounter denial, finger pointing, lame excuses, or just plain apathy. -- The Pragmatic Programmer (2019)

Perilous to us all are the devices of an art deeper than we possess ourselves. -- Gandalf the White

Deti vedia byť šťastné už len preto, že žijú, potešia sa každej maličkosti, pozornosti, slovu. Tragika dospelých je aj v tom, že si potrpíme na veľkosť. Túžime prijímať i rozdávať veľké dary. -- Anton Srholec

Tatino, odkedy som prišiel z Petržalky, mám pocit akoby som bol v sne. -- Matu, Júl 2019 (po Pohode)

Možnosti sú len dve: budovať, alebo rúcať. Ak si povieš, že zostaneš bokom, že sa ťa to netýka, aj vtedy rúcaš. Dom, o ktorý sa nestaráš, spadne. -- Pišta Vandal

If there’s a lesson in there it’s… share with others. Share through open source, through giving talks, and through how you interact with others. The more you give the more people will appreciate you and the more opportunity you will have. -- John Graham-Cumming (https://blog.cloudflare.com/helping-to-build-cloudflare-part-1/)

So, I got to Cloudflare because of a personal itch, open source, public speaking and two languages [Visual Basic and Perl] that many people look down on and joke about. Be wary of doing that. Although languages do make a difference the skill of a programmer in their chosen language matters a lot. -- John Graham-Cumming (https://blog.cloudflare.com/helping-to-build-cloudflare-part-1/)

Prečo máš také guľaté prsia? -- Elka, Júl 2019

Baník je taký ujo, čo stráži banku. -- Elka, Jun 2019

Naco pozerate tie predpovede pocasia?? Ja vam to predpoviem lepsie.3 dni je pekne,potom 2 dni skaredo a tak. Alebo inak. -- Matu, Maj 2019

Tatino, kto je starší, ty alebo mamina? Ja. Šak som si aj myslel, lebo ty máš bradu a mama nie. -- Matu, Máj 2019

Nemôžeme tvoriť udalosti. Tie sú výsledkom tisícov faktorov, na ktoré nemáme vždy vplyv. Ale môžeme im dať určitý smer, útvar. -- M. R. Štefánik

Dadko, aké je tvoje obľubené číslo? Tri a pol. -- Dadko, Apríl 2019

Matu, čo to tu staviaš? To mi dedko kázal, z nebies. -- Matu, Marec 2019

When you think about focusing, you think, "Well, focusing is saying yes." No! Focusing is about saying no. -- Steve Jobs (https://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/blog/organizations-that-work-on-fewer-projects-at-a-time-get-more-done)

The way the world tells you whether what you are doing is valuable is whether they send you money. -- Donald Reinertsen

Asking for advice is always a good way to show respect and trust. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

It's a pretty universal truth that once you get the job you thought you wanted, the enjoyment eventually fades and you find yourself looking for something else. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

As you go through various stages of your career, you'll start to realize how much uncertainty there is in the world. -- Camille Fournier, The Manager's Path

Ale je to iná generácia. Nebavilo ho to, nechcelo sa mu drieť. Ja som ho na beh nabádal, no nikdy som ho do ničoho netlačil. -- M. M. Šimečka (https://dennikn.sk/1415611/m-m-simecka-ma-v-nohach-100-tisic-kilometrov-rekreacni-bezci-si-neuvedomuju-ze-beh-je-vlastne-let/)

Prečo Boh stvoril človeka? Aby sme žili. Alebo ešte je iná možnosť - aby sme boli živí. -- Dadko, Marec 2019

Dieťa, ktoré odrieka detskú modlitbičku, vyzerá jednoducho. Ak vám to stačí a nechcete sa dostať ďalej, vaša vec. -- C. S. Lewis, Hovory

Ak chceme niečo viac než jednoduchosť, je hlúpe sťažovať sa, že to nie je jednoduché. -- C. S. Lewis, Hovory

Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later. -- Brooks law

The next woe is that designing grand concepts is fun; finding nitty little bugs is just work. With any creative activity come dreary hours of tedious, painstaking labor, and programming is no exception. -- Frederick P. Brooks, Mythical Man-Month

The programmer, like the poet, works only slightly removed from pure thought-stuff. Yet the program construct, unlike the poet's words, is real in the sense that it moves and works, producing visible outputs separate from the construct itself. -- Frederick P. Brooks, Mythical Man-Month

Tatino, ja tomu nechápem. Ja chcem chodiť na korčulko ale moje telo mi nedovolí. Ale veď ono je len nosič pre mozog. -- Matu, Február 2019

Tati, Messi má mokrého aj pipíka po futbale? -- Matu, Február 2019

(Hrajú sa s Legom) Elka, vieš prečo má tento pajko helmu? Aby mu hadi nezjedli oči, lebo oni ľúbia oči. -- Dadko, Február 2019

But you should always make sure to criticize the essence of what is being said, rather than sniping at superficial "gotchas". -- Aron Wall (http://www.wall.org/~aron/blog/comparing-religions-i-introduction/)

Don’t fall into the trap of choosing one and completely ignoring the other. Python and Go are both too good and too important to miss. -- Luciano Ramalho

Hovori sa, ze chlapi su prasata. Ale v nasej rodine je Elka najvacsie prasa. -- Matu, Januar 2019

Mami, ja ked budem velka, aj ja pojdem na operaciu. A ty budes vtedy stara babka, a pojdes so mnou. -- Elka, Januar 2019

a) know yourself and what makes you happy, b) spend your time mostly in alignment with that. -- charity (https://charity.wtf/2019/01/04/engineering-management-the-pendulum-or-the-ladder/)

Doing things that make you happy give you energy. Doing things that drain you are antithetical to your success. Find out what those things are, and don't do them [too often]. -- charity (https://charity.wtf/2019/01/04/engineering-management-the-pendulum-or-the-ladder/)

Up until now, China has spent a lot more time copying us than we spend copying them; that's suddenly going to go into reverse. -- Tim O'Reilly (https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/gradually-then-suddenly)

... the lack of existing infrastructure turned out to be an advantage in adopting a radically new model. Expect to see this pattern recur, as incumbents and old thinking hold back the adoption of new models. -- Tim O'Reilly (https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/gradually-then-suddenly)

Vieš prečo som už dva krát kakal? Lebo som dva krát papal. -- Dadko, December 2018

Dadko, v tom kostole bude nuda. Radšej si zober hračku. -- Matu, Vianoce 2018

Developers who, for one reason or another, decide to take roles as managers or architects are not climbing up the software development ladder; they are switching ladders. -- The Software Craftsman

There is a huge difference between having ten years of experience and having one year of experience repeated ten times. Ten years spent working on different projects, with different technologies, and for different companies is different from ten years working for the same company, on the same project, and with the same people and same technology. -- The Software Craftsman

There are no easy answers. There is no such thing as a best solution, be it [a methodology,] a tool, a language, or an operating system. There can only be systems that are more appropriate in a particular set of circumstances. -- The Pragmatic Programmer

Every day, work to refine the skills you have and to add new tools to your repertoire. Unlike the Eton lawns, you'll start seeing results in a matter of days. Over the years, you'll be amazed at how your experience has blossomed and your skills have grown. -- The Pragmatic Programmer

Money is like gas in the car - you need to pay attention or you'll end up on the side of the road - but a successful business or a well-lived life is not a tour of gas stations. -- Tim O'Reilly, WTF

Matu co chces napisat na narodeninovu tortu? Life is life. -- Matu, November 2018

(večerné uspávanie) Eli, už môžem ísť? Ee, ešte tri minúty. -- Elka, November 2018

Do not communicate by sharing memory; instead, share memory by communicating. -- Effective Go (https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#concurrency)

Although Go's approach to concurrency originates in Hoare's Communicating Sequential Processes (CSP), it can also be seen as a type-safe generalization of Unix pipes. -- Effective Go (https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#concurrency)

Skúsme si nerobiť zle. -- Dadko, Október 2018

Ja by som Agátku nevymenil za nič na svete. -- Matu, Október 2018

Ja si dám dedka Jojka spopolniť. -- Matu, November 2018

Unless you're working on the biggest things you could be working on, you're type-B procrastinating, no matter how much you're getting done. -- Paul Graham (http://paulgraham.com/procrastination.html)

I think the way to "solve" the problem of procrastination is to let delight pull you instead of making a to-do list push you. Work on an ambitious project you really enjoy, and sail as close to the wind as you can, and you'll leave the right things undone. -- Paul Graham (http://paulgraham.com/procrastination.html)

Na můj názor, pohled, přínos se čeká. Jsem odpovědný za to, že zazní. Pravda, musím nejprve nějaký mít... -- Karel Satoria

One hundred years from now, historians will look back at this decade and conclude that something transformative happened: how we worked inside Development and IT Operations changed completely.… I predict that historians will call this decade the “Cambrian explosion for IT,” a time of incredible innovation and disruption when, 50 years after the birth of computing, we finally learned what technology was good for. -- John Willis

Tato vieš čo, že keď cítim kako, tak kakám a keď necítim kako, tak nekakám. -- Dadko, Október 2018

To neni kopa snehu, to je dedkova Fiatka. -- Matu, Október 2018

Dorotka mi povedala, že som prd. -- Dadko, Október 2018

Tatino, povedz ruža. Ruža. Máš doma sexy muža. -- Matu, Október 2018

Spravodlivosť je, keď nepapáš zrniečka z chleba. -- Elka, Október 2018

(Streda ráno) Tatino, dnes je cez víkend? -- Dadko, Október 2018

Tatino ja viem, že dnes je utorok. Je utorok aj tu vnútri (v dome)? -- Elka, September 2018

Dadko, ty vies postavit lietadlo z lega? Nie, ja viem iba odhryznut koleso, ked to nejde rukou. -- Dadko, September 2018

Tatino, ty ma počuješ, keď mám zapchaté uši? -- Dadko, September 2018

(Malkia park - mackovite selmy) Dadko, ktore zvieratko sa ti najviac pacilo? Jelen. -- Dadko, September 2018

So never forget: if you print out an address in a program, it's a virtual one, an illusion of how things are laid out in memory; only the OS (and the hardware) knows the real truth. -- OSTEP (http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/vm-intro.pdf)

Babka, chce sa mi cikať a teraz, keď tu nie je dedko, možeš ísť so mnou aj ty. -- Dadko, August 2018

Trying to break things is an extremely educational process that you should attempt all the time. -- Mihalis Tsoukalos

(V reštaurácii Pri Kaplnke) Tatino, tam hore sú tiež odsávače. Keď si tu niekto prdne, tak oni to odsajú. -- Matu, August 2018

Dadko, tebe sa páčil ten Sven? Áno, mne sa páčila jeho hlava. -- Dadko, August 2018

Viete kto býva v Šulekove? Áno, Kaliňák. -- Matu, Júl 2018

Read. Read. Read. Read as much as you can about as many different things as you can. Then write about it. -- Andy Lester: Land the Tech Job You Love

The three steps to keeping yourself hirable are these: improve yourself, improve your network, and improve your brand. -- Andy Lester: Land the Tech Job You Love

E (namosúrená): Dadko dnes nemôže vyberať knižku, on stále vyberá. Teraz ja budem! D: Ja ti ukážem, ktorú máš vybrať, dobre? E (spokojná): Dobre. -- Elka, Dadko, August 2018

V noci ste spali v spálni aj s babkou? Nie, babka nespala. Ona varila. -- Dadko, August 2018

Tatino, teba ako volali v škôlke? Taťásek? -- Elka, August 2018

V Rakúsku sú štiplavé netopiere. -- Elka, August 2018

Janka, tebe nevadí, že je vás doma tak málo? -- Dadko, Júl 2018

One other difference within our approach is that we tend to emphasize mechanism (and the nuts and bolts of how things work) more than policy. -- Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau about ostep.org

Vy keď ste stavali domček, prečo vám nevybrali Petržalku? -- Dadko, Júl 2018

Mamina, všakže niektorí vegetaliáni mäso ľúbia. -- Dadko, Júl 2018

Ja ľúbim všetko. Okrem feferoniek. -- Elka, Júl 2018

Get it right. Neither abstraction nor simplicity is a substitute for getting it right. -- Butler Lampson

Smrdí to tu ako Rudov kohút. -- Matu na WC v da Cono, Júl 2018

Nejaký smrádok mi ide z nosa. Ja to cítim. -- Elka, Júl 2018

Mama je na takej pohode, tam išla lietadlom ale tam môžu ísť iba veľkí. -- Elka, Júl 2018

Policajný agent je taký ujko, čo je ticho. -- Elka, Júl 2018

Elka má face. -- Matu, Júl 2018

Tatino, ten chlapček je anglický a už aj ja mu začínam hovoriť anglicky. A čo si mu povedal? Zatiaľ nič. -- Matu, Júl 2018

Tatino, na tej Elke je niečo zvláštne. Vždy keď sa na ňu pozriem, tak je špinavá. Hlavne okolo pusy. -- Matu, Júl 2018

We reject: kings, presidents, and voting. We believe in: rough consensus and running code. -- Dave Clark in 1992 about IETF

TCP implementation should follow a general principle of robustness: be conservative in what you do, be liberal in what you accept from others. -- Jon Postel (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc761)

My wild guess is that Go and containers will experience the same long-lasting symbiosis as C and Unix, so you are well prepared for the next 20 years. -- jot1109, June 2018 (https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/8jh233/from_bash_perl_to_golang/)

Though containers and orchestrators are still in the process of entering the mainstream, they are already enabling developers to build and deploy applications with a speed, agility, and reliability that would have seemed like science fiction only a few years ago. -- Kubernetes: Up and Running (2017)

From the first programming languages, to object-oriented programming, to the development of virtualization and cloud infrastructure, the history of computer science is a history of the development of abstractions that hide complexity and empower you to build ever more sophisticated applications. Despite this, the development of reliable, scalable applications is still dramatically more challenging than it ought to be. -- Kubernetes: Up and Running (2017)

Stále buď tak ako si a nebuď ako nie si. -- Elka, Júl 2018

(Babka si kúpila nohavičky) Babka, keď budem veľká, tak si ich zoberem ja a tebe kúpim iné. -- Elka, Jún 2018

Asi sa mi chce kakať, lebo je tu nejaký smrad a ide z mojej riti. -- Elka, Jún 2018

Ktovie ako sa má babka Zuzka v tej truhle? Ale to asi nikto nevie, len krtko. -- Matu, Jar 2018

Mne sa tato rodina paci, vytvorim si takuto istu. Len deti budu mat ine tvare. -- Matu, Maj 2018

Matu, ako si vysvetľuješ, že niekedy sa počas spánku pocikáš a niekedy nie? To ja nevysvetľujem, to niekto iný vysvetľuje. -- Matu, 2.2.2018

Matúško, ale Vianoce budú, až keď napadne sniežik ... Babka Božka, ale čo to táraš. -- Matu

Mám dobré oči jak eroplán. -- Matu

Dedko, ty nie si dedko, ty si fešák. -- Matu

Cica je cat, havo je dog, káva je kafíčko. -- Matu

Padol som jak pavián. -- Matu

Som smädný jak had. -- Matu

Ako sa volá mama? Dog. -- Matu

Človek je taký veľký, že na svoje neštastie môže odmietnuť aj vlastné večné šťastie. -- Anton Srholec

Raising different kids requires different approaches, just like computer problems do. -- Larry Wall

The only way to become smart is to be stupid first. -- Larry Wall

Remember, your friends are UTC for times, and UTF-8 for strings. -- Bill Lubanovic (Introducing Python)

Since my earliest usage of Python, I've mostly viewed it as a personal productivity tool. -- David Beazley (;login: spring17)

Simplicity requires more work at the beginning of a project to reduce an idea to its essence and more discipline over the lifetime of a project to distinguish good changes from bad or pernicious ones. -- The Go Programming Language

It's estimated that, as of 2017, there are more than a million unfilled cybersecurity positions globally. SOCs are understaffed and short on skills. -- Chad Russell (http://imperva.lookbookhq.com/waf-oreilly/eBook)

Always rewrite your code from scratch, prefefably twice. -- Tom Christiansen

But those complex distributed systems built from hardware and software are really only extensions of much more complex distributed systems built by humans. -- Mike Loukides (https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/what-is-devops-yet-again)

We need empathy, creative thinking and participation with the users we're trying to serve. That's not easy. -- Mike Loukides (https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/what-is-devops-yet-again)

If we're just providing solutions, and not understanding the problem that needs to be solved, from the perspective of the person who has the problem, we're not doing anything. -- Mike Loukides (https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/what-is-devops-yet-again)

These days, operations staff may rarely see a computer other than their laptop: the machines that do the work are virtual, they live at Amazon or at Microsoft or at Google or at IBM. -- Mike Loukides (2017)

As an industry, we are moving into technologies (deep learning, machine learning, microservices, autonomous operations) where it is increasingly likely that we will be dealing with complex systems, where introspection how something works is less important during the development and support cycle than whether it works. -- Casey Rosenthal (Netflix's Manager of Traffic and Chaos Teams)

Elegance and simplicity and generality all are things that, to a large extent, depend on personal taste, because what seems to cover a large area for me may not cover enough for someone else, and vice versa. -- Guido van Rossum (Masterminds of Programming)

What is life? It is the flash of a firefly in the night. It is the breath of a buffalo in the wintertime. It is the little shadow which runs across the grass and loses itself in the sunset. -- Crowfoot's last words (1890)

Solve the biggest problem you can. -- Nick Hanauer (WTF book)

It's not our job to stop the inevitable from happening; it's our job to make it more safe when it does. -- Daniel Missler (https://danielmiessler.com/blog/bruce-schneier-is-wrong-to-fear-monger-on-iot-security/)

The process of learning to create what I have in my mind has produced an epic number of mountainous piles of junk, but at the tops of those piles of junk are some works I admire. -- Zed A. Shaw

By simply attempting to create something on a regular basis I've become adept at doing it, and there is no magic to this. I just keep trying until I can do it. -- Zed A. Shaw

There's absolutely nothing wrong, self-centered, greedy, antisocial, or abusive about wanting to focus on you so you can be better at what you love. -- Zed A. Shaw

Or maybe fuzzy thinking is more comfortable for us, because it conforms to our wishes at every moment. -- Aaron Wall

Instead of trying to figure out what to return when there's an error, the int() function raises the ValueError exception and you deal with it. -- LPTHW (errors in Python)

Security vulnerabilities, exploits, and attacks that once affected only bits and bytes now affect flesh and blood. -- Bruce Schneier (2017)

November 1989. Ten som nečakal, nedokázal som si ho predstaviť - ja ani moji priatelia -, ako by sa to mohlo stať, aby Sovietsky zväz padol bez strašlivej vojny. -- .jan Sokol

Tatino počíta na počítači, aby zarobil korunky. -- Matu, 2017

hic abundant leones

hic et nunc

repetitio est mater studiorium

I daresay the majority of large companies are still using Perl, even if their managers don't know they're using it. ;-) -- Larry Wall (https://developers.slashdot.org/story/16/07/14/1349207/the-slashdot-interview-with-larry-wall)

Welcome to a time of exponential change, the most amazing time ever to be alive. -- Peter H. Diamandis (Exponential Organizations, 2014)

Don't fight stupid, make more awesome. -- Jesse Robbins (Master of Disaster @ Amazon)

A bad system will beat a good person every time. -- W. Edwards Deming

We are taught to value simplicity and beauty. That's nice. I like circles too. However, complexity is not always the enemy. What's important is not simplicity or complexity, but how to bridge the two. -- Larry Wall (http://www.oreilly.com/openbook/opensources/book/larry.html)

There are two ways of constructing a software design: One way is to make it so simple that there are obviously no deficiencies and the other way is to make it so complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies. -- C.A.R. Hoare, The 1980 ACM Turing Award Lecture

The standard example of an ancient nonsense - the debate about angels on pinheads - makes sense once you realize the theologians were not discussing whether five or eighteen would fit, but whether a pin could house a finite or an infinite number. -- S. J. Gould, "Wide Hats and Narrow Minds"

Over the years, I have discovered that people usually have reasons for the things that they do. Their actions are rarely arbitrary; even things that seem perverse often make sense once you understand their objectives, and interests and priorities. -- Steven W. McDougall (http://world.std.com/~swmcd/steven/programming/code.html)

People who are able to live digitally enhanced lives, in the sense that they can use all the available tools to the fullest extent, are very much more productive and capable and powerful than those who are still stuck in meatspace. -- Ross Anderson (https://www.edge.org/conversation/ross_anderson-the-threat)

Before I became an academic, in the first dozen years of my working life, I would change jobs every year or three just so I kept moving and didn't get bored. -- Ross Anderson (https://www.edge.org/conversation/ross_anderson-the-threat)

I expect that Perl's relative importance will probably decline in the future, even while its developer base continues to increase in absolute size, because its competitors will grow faster than Perl does. -- Raymond (http://www.salon.com/1998/10/13/feature_269/)

When asked to do 30 iterations of a task, an SRE should do the first two, get bored, and automate the rest. -- PoCSA

The rate at which organizations learn may soon become the only sustainable source of competetive advantage. -- Peter Senge

Success is not final, failure is not fatal; it is the courage to continue that counts. -- Winston Churchill

Every company is a technology company, regardless of what business they think they're in. A bank is just an IT company with a banking license. -- Christopher Little

Note that I'm measuring success here not so much in terms of numbers of users, but in terms of satisfaction of users. -- Larry Wall (http://www.wall.org/~larry/pm.html)

Pri posteli mám asi štyridať kníh o behaní a tie čítam už roky stále dokola. Vždy v nich objavím niečo nové. -- Karol Petöcz

In general, they do what you want, unless you want consistency. -- perlfunc

IBM aims at constructing commercial IBM Q systems with ~50 qubits in the next few years to demonstrate capabilities beyond today's classical systems ... -- IBM 201703 (https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/51740.wss)

The defaults are there for lazy systems programmers writing one-shot programs. -- perlstyle

What is a good hash function? That's something you'll never have to worry about - old men (and women) with big beards sit in dark rooms and worry about that. -- Aditya Y. Bhargava

The first version of everything is janky. Don't fear jankiness as long as you're solving a problem -- ALexis Ohanian

Don't try to write perfect code; write code that works, and then decide whether to improve your code for that project or move on to something new. -- Eric Matthes (Python Crash Course)

Most people think you automate things for speed, and you certainly can, but consistency was a much larger driver around automation for us. -- Michael Stahnke (http://sysadvent.blogspot.sk/2016/12/day-7-what-we-can-learn-about-change.html)

Have a backout plan when it makes sense, recognize when it doesn't. Rollback, without time-travel, is basically a myth. -- Michael Stahnke (http://sysadvent.blogspot.sk/2016/12/day-7-what-we-can-learn-about-change.html)

Write down the complete, detailed plan, and then make sure at least one other person reviews it. -- Chris McDermott (http://sysadvent.blogspot.sk/2016/12/day-4-change-management-keep-it-simple.html)

Automating too early can waste as much time as automating too late. -- AWS System Administration

So far, you've watched 34 hours of video, and read for 122 hours. -- Safari books

Mňa netrápi, či im to bude fungovať. Mňa trápi, či ja mám niečo robiť. -- zamestnanec korporácie :-)

Increasingly, our customers tell us that not only are they using more Perl but they're doing more sophistacated things with it. -- Navrup Johal (http://www.activestate.com/blog/2016/07/perl-paradox)

In general, once some technology gets established, it is very hard to dislodge. -- Andrew Tanenbaum (https://www.usenix.org/system/files/login/articles/login_apr15_04_tanenbaum.pdf)

Perl used to be far and away my language of choice, but these days I'm more likely to write new code in Python, largely because far more of my friends and coworkers are confortable with it. -- nelhage (https://blogs.oracle.com/ksplice/entry/the_top_10_tricks_of)

Most languages are like stackoverflow: I have a question, I want the best answer. Perl is like PerlMonks: I have a doubt, I want to read an interesting discussion about it that is likely to go on a tangent. q-: -- tye (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=783659)

A daemon that is properly started with no controlling terminal will never receive SIGHUP from the OS. Thus, it is convenient to repurpose SIGHUP to tell the daemon to read its configuration file. -- Steven W. McDougall (http://world.std.com/~swmcd/steven/tech/daemon.html)

Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards, for you are crunchy and good with ketchup. -- Steven W. McDougall (http://world.std.com/~swmcd/steven/perl/pm/xs/intro/index.html)

Computers, networks, and algorithms are at the heart of all of our complex social and political issues. -- Bruce Schneier (https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2016/06/computer_scienc.html)

I have never taken any courses in computer science or software engineering. -- esr (http://www.catb.org/~esr/resume.html)

Rush to launch something... anything... and build on it. Reduce the scope to the minimum; avoid the temptation to add "just this one last thing" before you launch. -- Tom Limoncelli (http://everythingsysadmin.com/2016/03/wasting-one-million-dollars.html)

You can talk and talk and have great ideas, but if you don't have a way of sharing those ideas then you are just saying it in you own bubble. -- Tom Limoncelli (http://stephenibaraki.com/acm/interviews/v0116/tom_limoncelli_acm.html)

There is one thing which will make no difference to your performance as a system administrator but will make getting another job in technology vastly easier, and that is a college degree, preferably in computer science or a related field. -- Elizabeth Zwicky (https://www.usenix.org/system/files/login/issues/1404_login_web.pdf)

Our migration plan was formed through an iterative process of research and implementation. -- Sebastian Gierlinger (https://www.digitalocean.com/customers/ghost)

If you shut the door to all the errors, truth will be shut out. -- Rabindranath Tagore

Be prepared to not understand things immediately, and take the time to go over things again and again until you've learned them. When you are teaching someone, expect to repeat yourself a lot. -- Joshua Zimmerman (http://sysadvent.blogspot.sk/2015/12/day-22-simplicity-in-complex-systems.html)

Talk to all the people that are involved and figure out what real need is and re-examine whether the "largest value" is actually needed, how it is needed, and whether the entire process can be improved by looking at it end-to-end. -- Tom Limoncelli (http://everythingsysadmin.com/2015/11/operations-and-big-o-analysis.html)

One of the best programmers I ever hired had only a High School degree; ... -- Peter Norvig (http://norvig.com/21-days.html)

Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it. -- Kernighan & Plauger: The Elements of Programming Style (1978)

... you don't know whether you can do something until you've done it. -- ULSAH

As a system administrator, automating the work that needs to be done should be the majority of your job. We should not make changes to the system, we should instruct the automation to make those changes. -- PSNA2

He used the word "kata", because he understood that repetition creates habits, and habits are what enable mastery. -- The Phoenix Project

Mike Rothers says that it almost doesn't matter what you improve, as long as you are improving something. -- The Phoenix Project

From a career-management point of view, I think it is important to be really really really good at one of them [Perl/Ruby/Python] and know a little of the others; even if that means just reading the first few chapters of a book on the topic. -- Tom Limoncelli (http://everythingsysadmin.com/2012/06/salang.html)

The choice of perl/python/ruby is usually driven by what is already in use at your shop. -- Tom Limoncelli (http://everythingsysadmin.com/2012/06/salang.html)

I think every Unix/Linux sysadmin should know shell (sh or bash) plus one of Perl, Ruby, Python. It doesn't matter which. -- Tom Limoncelli (http://everythingsysadmin.com/2012/06/salang.html)

As a system grows, it will become more complex. That is a fact of life. Therefore, starting out as simple as possible delays the day when a system becomes too complex. -- PoSaNA

The best optimization strategy is to steal from what smarter people have already done. -- brian d foy (http://www.masteringperl.org/2015/05/computing-excellent-numbers/)

Networking is when you can't get any work done because of the failure of a machine you have never heard of. -- ULSAH

We're a Puppet shop, though If I could do it over, I'd switch to either Ansible or SaltStack. -- Linux Foundation System Administrator Konstanin Ryabitsev (http://www.linux.com/news/featured-blogs/200-libby-clark/814542-15-reddit-ama-questions-for-kernelorg-sysadmin-konstantin-ryabitsev)

Diversity of software, hardware, and network connectivity are the keys to surviving the Darwinian pressure of the Internet. Add geographical location and sysadmin skills to your diversity pile and you will be in fine shape. -- ULSAH: DNS

A host can only route packets to gateway machines that are reachable through a directly connected network. The local hosts's job is limited to moving packets one hop closer to their destinations, so it is pointless to include information about nonadjacent gateways in the local routing table. -- ULSAH

Information security professionals and System Administrators alike have a tendency to strive for a perfect solution. System Administrators, however, often times have enough practical experience to know that those rarely exist, and that deploying a reasonable, but not perfect, solution to a problem upon which can be iterated in the future is almost always preferable. -- Jan Schaumann (http://sysadvent.blogspot.co.at/2014/12/day-20-infosec-basics-reason-behind.html)

Failure free operations require experience with failure. -- Richard Cook (http://web.mit.edu/2.75/resources/random/How%20Complex%20Systems%20Fail.pdf)

As in bash, Perl has a dedicated "else if" condition, but its keyword is elsif rather than elif. (For you who use both languages, these fun, minute differences either keep you mentally nimble or drive you insane.) -- ULSAH

Keep in mind that hostnames are really just a convenient shortcut for IP addresses, and as such, they refer to network interfaces rather than computers. -- ULSAH

... when I'm learning something new, my approach is to have a well defined end-goal in mind, then I learn the details as I solve problems to get to that point. -- Andrew Solomon (http://www.linuxcareer.com/perl-as-a-career-option)

Know your place in the world and evaluate yourself fairly, not in terms of your naive ideals of your own youth, nor in terms of what you erroneously imagine your teacher's ideals are. -- Richard Feynman (http://genius.cat-v.org/richard-feynman/writtings/letters/problems)

I would advise you to take even simpler, or as you say, humbler, problems until you find some you really solve easily, no matter how trivial. -- Richard Feynman (http://genius.cat-v.org/richard-feynman/writtings/letters/problems)

The worthwhile problems are the ones you can really solve or help solve, the ones you can really contribute something to. -- Richard Feynman (http://genius.cat-v.org/richard-feynman/writtings/letters/problems)

The name servers listed in resolv.conf must be configured to allow your host to submit querries and must answer them completely (be recursive), not refer you to other name servers. -- ULSAH, 4th, p. 561

the GUIs tend to ignore advanced configurations, and they are relatively inconvenient for remote and automated administration. -- ULSAH, 4th

The distinguishing characteristic of commands in /sbin is usually that they're linked with "static" versions of the system libraries and therefore don't have many dependencies on other parts of the system. -- ULSAH, 4th

The basic purpose of a filesystem is to represent and organize the system's storage resources. -- ULSAH, 4th

The more that we can show our appreciation, the better we'll feel, the nicer we'll be to each other and the more we'll be able to do together. -- brian d foy (http://perltricks.com/article/75/2014/3/6/Perl-master-an-interview-with-brian-d-foy)

There is not such thing as best practice unless you specify the context. -- brian d foy (http://perltricks.com/article/75/2014/3/6/Perl-master-an-interview-with-brian-d-foy)

Be a carpenter, not a hammer operator. -- abw (http://www.reddit.com/r/perl/comments/1ykvr8/the_midcareer_crisis_of_the_perl_programmer/cflrs5n)

My career advice is to only do projects that produce usable output every few weeks or months. Being on a project that will not show any results for a year or more is a good way to hide from management. Being invisible is a career killer. -- Limoncelli

Perl’s syntax rules make dereferencing complex expressions tricky—it falls into the category of “hard things that should be possible.” -- Alpaca Book

All of these tasks can be improved with better tools. Good tools are a stepping stone to automation. -- Limoncelli

Today's kids have too much technology, so they think a simple FTP archive is stupid. They try to build overly-complex systems which they then lose interest in. -- brian d foy (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=674742)

If you dance with the devil, the devil don't change. The devil changes you. -- Max California

If you're not learning something new, you're falling behind the competition. -- Andy Lester

No matter what your current job is, you're working for yourself. Consider yourself as working for You And Your Family, Inc., and you are a contractor to whomever your current employer is. -- Andy Lester: Land the Tech Job You Love

The notion of "play" and "work" are best described as a quantum superposition blur for a sysadmin... -- David N. Blank-Edelman

and so far they seem like a great bunch of folks. the sort of folk who just like to quietly do good in the world :) -- TimToady a.k.a. Larry Wall (http://irclog.perlgeek.de/perl6/2013-10-17#i_7723873)

When my career in technology started, I was a system administrator. If you think programmers are lazy, you don't know many really good system administrators. My rule was "If I'm bored four days out of five, I've done my job well." A bad system administrator will ignore problems. A good system administrator will prevent problems, often through a combination of automation and monitoring. -- chromatic (http://www.modernperlbooks.com/mt/2013/10/automation-paralysis-and-false-laziness.html)

Laziness is a virtue in programmers, but like any virtue, it's easy to take it too far (or not far enough), in which it becomes a vice. -- chromatic (http://www.modernperlbooks.com/mt/2013/10/automation-paralysis-and-false-laziness.html)

Yes, I know I write perl code like a C programmer, that's not an insult to me. -- Greg Kroah-Hartman (http://kroah.com/log/blog/2013/09/11/xxd-i/)

The only meaningful definition of a "generalist" is a specialist who can relate his own small area to the universe of knowledge. -- Peter Drucker (http://tomtunguz.com/the-myth-of-the-generalist)

That's also error-prone; eyes are not optimized for picking out small differences in the middle of large amounts of nearly identical text. -- Damian Conway (http://www.perl.com/pub/2005/07/14/bestpractices.html)

It is very difficult to quantify and measure quality, ... However, like porn, we know quality when we see it. -- Kwalitee wiki (http://perl-qa.hexten.net/wiki/index.php?title=Kwalitee)

Red cars tend to be fast, but your car will not go faster if you paint it red. -- Kwalitee wiki (http://perl-qa.hexten.net/wiki/index.php?title=Kwalitee)

when all else fails, read the error message -- TimToady (http://irclog.perlgeek.de/perl6/2013-07-21)

Which is not to say that “true” and “false” aren’t useful concepts. I just tend to view them along the same lines as “infinity” or “the square root of negative one”—extremely useful abstractions that quite possibly don’t have any concrete representation in the physical world. -- Barefoot Coder (http://barefootcoder.blogspot.sk/2010/08/balance-and-paradox.html)

You can either howl at the injustice of it all, or you can delight in the fact that a single well-handled trouble ticket scores as many brownie points as five hours of midnight debugging. You pick! -- ULSAH

A university exists to teach a student how to teach themselves, to sift through data and find information, and to separate the probable from the improbable. -- maddog (http://www.lpi.org/blog/free-software-small-country-part-two-training)

I remember a family friend telling me when I was a kid that computers are going to be the future and that there will be a lot of jobs in this field. I also remember that the idea of sitting all day, alone, in front of a minitel-like computer scared the hell out of me. -- Matt Aimonetti (http://matt.aimonetti.net/posts/2012/11/14/engineers-suck-at-finding-right-jobs/)

For that you need some sort of metrics helping you to see if you are getting closer or farther from the direction you set for yourself. -- Matt Aimonetti (http://matt.aimonetti.net/posts/2012/11/14/engineers-suck-at-finding-right-jobs/)

Do not jump into management too quickly. Spend a long time learning the technology. -- Ed Amoroso (http://itc.conversationsnetwork.org/shows/detail965.html)

Perl is just a language and you can get almost anything done with it, but the more valuable thing is knowledge about the problem you're trying to solve. -- brian d foy (http://www.learning-perl.com/2013/05/advice-to-a-new-perl-user/)

Byl to velmi zvláštní člověk. Komunistický režim jej po sovětském vzoru prohlásil za psychicky nemocného (diagnóza paranoia kverulans), protože režimní psychiatři i režim sám uvažoval logicky: každý, kdo se bouří proti neporazitelnému systému s vědomím, že nemá šanci, musí být přece blázen. -- Martin M. Šimečka (http://respekt.ihned.cz/ost-blog/c1-59565650-na-okraj-jednoho-vyroci)

Use what you find comfortable, and hopefully try out new things once in a while. -- Sawyer X (http://blogs.perl.org/users/sawyer_x/2013/05/interview-with-pragmatic-perl-in-english.html)

Do you have an actual use case for these? Or are you just imagining things that might possibly potentially be cool in the future maybe? -- petdance (http://perlmonks.org/?node_id=1030905)

In the HN [Hacker News] echo chamber, it seems like everyone who's anyone has moved on to ruby, rails, python, django, etc. Look into the every-web. My god, it's full of perl. -- noonespecial (https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4461427)

Also sword is not sharpened on the thick side. Go find and sharpen your strenghts and learn to accept your weaknesses. Both are essential parts of you. -- Johnnie Thinker (http://www.johnnie-thinker.com/)

What did The Hustle™ accomplish? I gained weight. I wasn’t spending enough time with my (now) wife. I felt like shit. I began to resent my work, and the work I was producing clearly wasn’t my best. I started cutting corners. I went from a mindset of shipping with quality and integrity to “when is this going to be over?” -- Kyle Bragger (https://medium.com/i-m-h-o/ef4772e3c628)

- Just what exactly is the problem you're looking to solve here? What are the metrics to support that? Whom are you looking to convince? How will the solution be rolled out? Who's going to do the work? What's it going to cost? How will you know when the work is done? How will you know whether it's working? -- VM Brasseur (http://anonymoushash.vmbrasseur.com/2013/02/28/rename-perl-5-marketing-ur-doin-it-wrong/)

If you're making a mess, stop. Take a deep breath. Then solve a small piece of the problem in an elegant way. Make sure you understand it. Then solve another small piece. Make both pieces work together elgantly. Make sure you understand that. Repeat until you have solved the problem. -- chromatic (http://www.modernperlbooks.com/mt/2013/04/how-to-identify-clunky-perl-5-code.html)

The greatness is measured by how much freedom you give to others, not by how much you can coerce others to do that you want. -- Larry Wall (http://www.wall.org/~larry/pm.html)

The very fact that it's possible to write messy programs in Perl is also what makes it possible to write programs that are cleaner in Perl than they could ever be in a language that attempts to write extremely clean, concise, and beautiful programs. The potential for greater good goes right along with the potential for greater evil. -- Larry Wall (http://www.wall.org/~larry/pm.html)

Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana. -- punch_card_don (http://perlmonks.org/?node_id=396320)

Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow; He who would search for pearls, must dive below. -- John Dryden

I've always lived cheaply ... like a student, basically. And I liked that, because it means that money is not telling me what to do. -- Richard Stallman (rms)

The universe doesn't come with enforced style guidelines. Creative people will develop style on their own. -- Larry Wall (http://interviews.slashdot.org/story/02/09/06/1343222/larry-wall-on-perl-religion-and)

Perl is obviously my attempt to help other people to be creative. In my little way, I'm sneakily helping people understand a bit more about the sort of people God likes. -- Larry Wall (http://interviews.slashdot.org/story/02/09/06/1343222/larry-wall-on-perl-religion-and)

The primary Perl slogan is: "There's more than one way to do it." The secondary Perl slogan is: "Easy things should be easy, and hard things should be possible." -- Larry Wall (http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=7137)

But if Perl is everything it ought to be, it will naturally attract serious attention over the long term. If ecological niches are natural, and if nature abhors a vacuum, it follows that ecological niches abhor vacuums too. I expect to hear some great sucking sounds over the next ten or twenty years. -- Larry Wall in 2002 (http://interviews.slashdot.org/story/02/09/06/1343222/larry-wall-on-perl-religion-and)

It is an unfortunate fact that, human nature being what it is, an ounce of cheerleading often beats a pound of rational discussion. -- Larry Wall (http://interviews.slashdot.org/story/02/09/06/1343222/larry-wall-on-perl-religion-and)

It should be possible to explain the laws of physics to a barmaid. -- Albert Einstein

You learn a natural language once and use it many times. The lesson for a language designer is that a language should be optimized for expressive power [breadth of ideas that can be represented and communicated] rather than for ease of learning. .. It's okay if a language is difficult to learn, as long as you don't have to learn it all at once. -- Larry Wall: Natural Language Principles in Perl (http://www.wall.org/~larry/natural.html)

It can do everything I want to do, and I already know it. If I wasn't a Perl programmer, I'd probably be happy in Ruby or Python. But so long as there's Perl, I see no reason to become as familiar with those languages as I am with Perl. -- Nathan Torkington (http://www.perl.com/pub/2001/07/03/nat.html)

Keď je nebezpečenstvo veľké, človek nesmie utekať. Odstúpiť sa dá v kľudnej chvíli, alebo keď už proste nemôžete ďalej. -- Joseph Ratzinger

Všetci si myslia, že start-up je o parádnom nápade. Ale nápadov je veľa. Hlavne je to o *brutálnej* robote. Nápadov je miliónkrát viac ako chuti robiť. -- Ivan Štefunko (http://ekonomika.sme.sk/c/6715026/ako-laviciar-vyraba-kapitalistov.html)

PerlMonks is a strange beast. It's largely a newbie-help site, but also contains a handful of things of terrifying beauty. -- Erudil's home node (http://www.perlmonks.org/bare/?node=Erudil)

I'm aware that I live in a little bubble, and the people I interact with are in no way typical... and I am *so* damn thankful for that. -- Paul Fenwick

TimToady thinks in his more arrogant moments that Perl 5 is great because it was designed to allow a CPAN to develop... -- Larry Wall on #perl6 (http://irclog.perlgeek.de/perl6/2012-11-13#i_6150123)

It's nice to be important, but it's more important to be nice. -- Tommy (http://perlmonks.org/?node_id=222307)

Use $_ as you would the word "it" in formal writing; sparingly, in small and well-defined scopes. -- chromatic: The Perl Philosophy (http://modernperlbooks.com/books/modern_perl/chapter_01.html)

Take advantage of this flexibility and pragmatism: it's far better to accomplish your task effectively now than to write a conceptually pure and beautiful program next year. -- chromatic: Modern Perl (http://modernperlbooks.com/books/modern_perl)

Learning Perl is like learning a second or third spoken language. You’ll learn a few words, then string together some sentences, and eventually will be able to have small, simple conversations. Mastery comes with *practice*, both reading and writing. You don’t have to understand all of the details of this chapter immediately to be productive with Perl. Keep these principles in mind as you read the rest of this book. -- Modern Perl (http://onyxneon.com/books/modern_perl)

It can get confusing. Hey, I'm confused most of the time. -- Larry Wall, Perl Cookbook's foreword

Master Foo nodded and replied: “When you are hungry, eat; when you are thirsty, drink; when you are tired, sleep.” -- Master Foo and the Shell Tools (http://catb.org/~esr/writings/unix-koans/shell-tools.html)

I have no talent. What I do have is a lot of practice. -- John Nunemaker (http://railstips.org/blog/archives/2010/01/12/i-have-no-talent/)

Learning new techniques is good, but using the techniques you already know appropriately is better. -- chromatic (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=208803)

Nothing has increased my programming productivity more than being able to restate hard problems as simple ones. -- David Heinemeier Hansson (Ruby on Rails, 37signals)

Eventually I want to live near a beach and work from a laptop with a good wireless connection and a view of the sea :). -- mdk (http://uk.linkedin.com/in/markkeating)

What do you care what other people think? -- Richard Feynman

Good service is rare, so when you find it, treasure it. -- Matt Simmons: Day 6 (http://sysadvent.blogspot.sk/2012/12/day-6-watching-out-for-vendor-lock-in.html) - Watching out for vendor lock-in

When debugging a problem, most of us sysadmins dive in, execute a task, analyze the result, and repeat until the problem is solved. -- Kent C. Brodie: Day 5: Following the white rabbit (http://sysadvent.blogspot.sk/2012/12/day-5-following-white-rabbit.html)

If you tell me, I'll forget. If you show me, I'll remember. If you involve me, I'll understand. -- 2teez (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=918402)

What can be asserted  without proof can be dismissed  without proof. -- Christopher Hitchins

The essential thing "in heaven and earth" is ... that there should be long obedience in the same direction; there thereby results, and has always resulted in the long run, something which has made life worth living. -- Friedrich Nietzsche (http://oreilly.com/catalog/opensources/book/larry.html)

Three great virtues of programming are laziness, impatience, and hubris. ... But here I'm going to talk about some other virtues: diligence, patience, and humility. If you think these sound like the opposite, you're right. -- Open Sources: Voices from the Open Source Revolution (http://oreilly.com/catalog/opensources/book/larry.html): Larry Wall (1999)

Then again, I did learn to program by the osmosis  of typing a lot of code, changing it, and eventually learning what worked and didn't. -- chromatic: From Alchemy to Science in Programming (http://www.modernperlbooks.com/mt/2012/06/from-alchemy-to-science-in-programming.html)

Well done is better than well said. -- Benjamin Franklin

At its heart, science is a way of discovering the world by making small, controlled, testable hypotheses, testing them, and seeing what happens. At its heart, a lot of programming is the same way. (So is running a small business selling a new product or service.) -- chromatic: Updating Tests and Code in Small Steps (http://www.modernperlbooks.com/mt/2012/06/updating-tests-and-code-in-small-steps.html)

The Internet is a weird and terrible thing. Larry wrote, "The social dynamics of the net are a direct consequence of the fact that nobody has yet developed a Remote Strangulation Protocol." -- rjbs: the perl 5.16.0 epigraph (http://rjbs.manxome.org/rubric/entry/1959)

We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but a habit. -- Will Durant (Aristotle)

... writing code before you have an expert-level understanding is okay. -- Tom Dale: Best Practices Exist for a Reason (http://tomdale.net/2012/04/best-practices-exist-for-a-reason/)

Humans need aerobic exercise in order to stay healthy. If there's any magic bullet to make human beings healthy, it's to run. -- Daniel Lieberman, professor of biological anthropology at Harvard University (http://www.dailymail.co.uk/home/moslive/article-1170253/The-painful-truth-trainers-Are-expensive-running-shoes-waste-money.html)

"So you decided that failure was OK." Yes. I stopped worrying about perfection where it didn't matter. Perfectionism is often overkill and a real time waster. -- Thomas A. Limoncelli (http://everythingsysadmin.com/): Time Management for System Administrators

You can code. They cannot. That is pretty damn cool. -- Advice From An Old Programmer (http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/advice.html)

I know that to get good at anything you have to practice every day, even if I suck that day (which is often) or it's difficult. Keep trying and eventually it'll be easier and fun. -- The Hard Way Is Easier (http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/intro.html)

In the third phase, you realize that Python is actually a great help to you and that Python represents the *collective intelligence* of hundreds of programmers who have given you some powerful and brilliant tools and capabilities. -- Tao of Programming (http://doc.pyschools.com/html/tao.html)

Because humans have unlimited storage capacity, having total recall would be a mess. -- Robert A. Bjork (http://www.psych.ucla.edu/faculty/faculty_page?id=41&area=3) (UCLA): Everything You Thought You Knew About Learning Is Wrong (http://www.wired.com/geekdad/2012/01/everything-about-learning/)

You're never too old to learn. One of the best programmers I ever interviewed for a job was 60! -- David Bolton (http://cplus.about.com/bio/David-Bolton-20620.htm): How Do I Get into Programming as a Career? (http://cplus.about.com/od/introductiontoprogramming/a/career.htm)

You only get old if you let yourself be old; then it's too late. -- Andrew Wulf (http://thecodist.com/article/am-i-too-old-to-be-a-programmer)

Learning to program is like learning to write good natural language. The best way to do it is to read some stuff written by masters of the form, write some things yourself, read a lot more, write a little more, read a lot more, write some more ... and repeat until your writing begins to develop the kind of strength and economy you see in your models. -- Eric Steven Raymond (http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html)

Based upon the highly-problematic code you have posted here and other nodes you have written to date, I think you are trying run before you can walk. -- Re: averages from multiple files (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=940093)

Genius is 1 percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration. -- Thomas Edison

If I were looking to improve my Perl marketability for the future, www.perlmonks.org is the place I'd be hanging out. -- Damian praises Perl Monks (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=131253)

The idea, is to make a compromise, somewhere between your ambitions, and your limitations. -- The Teahouse of the August Moon

Similarly, Perl was designed to be a mess (though in the nicest of possible ways). -- Open Sources: Voices from the Open Source Revolution (http://oreilly.com/catalog/opensources/book/larry.html): Larry Wall (1999)

The race is on to own certain classes of core data: location, identity, calendaring of public events, product identifiers and namespaces. -- Tim O'Reilly: What Is Web 2.0 (http://oreilly.com/pub/a/web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html?page=1) (2005)

To a large degree, you need to find the *tool that fits your brain best*. Perl and Python can do basically the same things, but they do them differently. Try both out (and try Ruby) and see which one works for you. -- Dave Rolsky: Python v. Perl (http://stackoverflow.com/questions/150043/python-v-perl)

Laziness = a tendency to judiciously exploit available resources to accomplish your programming goals with minimal effort. -- Minimal Perl for UNIX and Linux People (in the Perl community - Laziness = using your energy efficiently)

Always trust your users. Never trust their input. -- Web Development with Perl (http://perltraining.com.au/notes/webdev.pdf)

The real job of a university is to teach a student how to self-educate, and (of course) to demonstrate that the student is capable of that through testing. -- Jon "Maddog" Hall: Is a University Degree Necessary? (http://blog.lpi.org/index.php/2011/04/is-a-university-degree-necessary/)

Is what I'm about to say: Thoughtful, Honest, Intelligent, Necessary, Kind? -- Andy Lester: Think, for Perl's sake (http://perlbuzz.com/2010/11/think-for-perls-sake.html)

Don't repeat yourself (DRY), make functions, subroutines, procedures. -- A. Hunt, D. Thomas: The Pragmatic Programmer (1999)

Understand what you want, find your talent, focus, and get to work. -- Lenny Zeltser, Students of IT security: Career advice from the masters (http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/security/students-of-it-security-career-advice-from-the-masters/5101?tag=content;blog-list-river)

If an attacker has physical access to your system, they win, regardless of the OS on the computer. -- http://www.openbsd.org/faq/faq8.html

There are no failures - just experiences and your reactions to them. -- Tom Krause

The greatest mistake so often made is to make a network configuration too complex. It pays to use the simplest solution that will meet the needs of the moment. -- Samba documentation (http://www.samba.org/samba/docs/man/Samba-HOWTO-Collection/StandAloneServer.html#id2575440)

... hard disks always fail eventually ... -- Mike Rubel's rsync snapshots backup (http://www.mikerubel.org/computers/rsync_snapshots/#Isolation)

And like that ... he's gone. -- Verbal, The Usual Suspects (1995)

If you have the right attitude, interesting problems will find you. -- ESR: The Cathedral and The Bazaar (http://catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/ar01s02.html)

...you often don't really understand the problem until after the first time you implement a solution. The second time, maybe you know enough to do it right. So if you want to get it right, be ready to *start over at least once*. -- ESR: The Cathedral and The Bazaar (http://catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/ar01s02.html)

...the value isn't in the software or the hardware, it's in the systems we build with both. -- http://blogs.sun.com/jonathan/

I sense...space. A kinda latitude of what we happily call reality, in which as everybody keeps saying...anything's possible. -- Dan

You've been smoking something really mind altering, and I think you should share it. -- Theo de Raadt (http://kerneltrap.org/OpenBSD/Virtualization_Security)

There is a basic rule in taking advise: Never take it from someone who had never achieved the thing you want to achieve. -- Robert T. Kyiosaki

It all comes to this: the simplest way to be happy is to do good. -- Helen Keller

It's not the size of the dog that matters in a fight. It's the size of the fight in the dog!

Nie je dolezite, aby bol zazitok pozitivny. Hlavne aby bol silny. -- Barabas: Pururambo, 25/10/05

I don't care to belong to a club that accepts people like me as a member. -- Groucho Marx

- There you go, mate. Keep as cool as you can. Face piles of trials with smiles. It riles them to believe that you perceive the web they weave. And keep on thinking free. -- The Moody Blues

The illiterate of the 21st century will not be those who cannot read and write, but those who cannot learn, unlearn, and relearn. -- Alvin Toffler

Reading furnishes the mind only with materials of knowledge; it is thinking that makes what we read ours. -- John Locke

Leave no stone unturned. -- Euripides

Accadono cose che sono come domande. Passa un minuto, oppure anni, e poi la vita ti risponde. -- Alessandro Baricco (1958)

From the viewpoint of positivist philosophy, however one cannot determine WHAT IS REAL. All one can do is find which mathematical models describe the universe we live in. We cannot  even suppose that the particle has a position and velocity that are known to God but are hidden from us. -- S. Hawking: The Universe in a Nutshell (2001)

When neither their poverty nor their honor is touched, the majority of men live content. -- Niccolo Machiavelli

You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. -- Yeshua, Wikiquote

Ma i nostri corpi a dormire su un materasso di foglie, a soffrire di geloni, si sono nutriti di cavolo e di lampredotto, come volete che ci faccia paura ritrovarci un po' diversi in viso? Credete che non ci riconosceremo? -- Vasco Pratolini: Il quartiere (1945)

It is only with the heart one can see clearly; what is essential is invisible to the eye. -- The Fox, 'The Little Prince'

It is more efficient to specialize in one field (to be the best for a given task) and combine with likewise designed tools instead of having one BIG CHUNK to do it all (eating up resources by unused functionality). -- MuttWiki (http://wiki.mutt.org/index.cgi?MailConcept)

Se il pugno e' chiuso la mano e' vuota. Solo se la mano e' aperta puoi possedere tutto. -- Li Mu Bai

There is a difference between knowing the path and walking the path. -- Morpheus

Takzvané nadanie do veľkej miery závisí od schopnosti sústrediť sa dlhý čas jedným smerom. -- Dušan Jaura: Nedáš si marshmallow? (.týždeň 17.12.2012)

Univerzálne akceptované cnosti ľudstva: vytrvalosť, sebakontrola, nadšenie, sociálna inteligencia, vďačnosť, optimizmus a zvedavosť. -- Selingman, Peterson: Character strenghts and Virtues: A handbook and classification

Mostly, it's important to remember everything we have ever done wrong while programming (or heard other people do), and then test we didn't do it again for this project. -- Intermediate Perl - The Art of Testing

Don't be reluctant to mix and match your command-line scripts. Shell scripts, PHP, Perl, and others are all very powerful and have their own advantages and disadvantages. -- admin-magazine.com (http://www.admin-magazine.com/Articles/Automation-Scripting-with-PHP)

If the company is pressuring you to learn how to sling-out  garbage “quickly,” then very quietly but very quickly look for another job. ... If you are in a situation that emphasizes “speed,” either so that you “do not fail” or in order to prove what a whatever-you-think-you-are you are, instead of teaching you how to produce real quality, then you are in a lose-lose situation that they write books about. -- sundialsvc4 (http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=987331)

The novice frowned  and said: “Perl's regexps would be excessive for so simple a task. I do not know awk, and I have been writing sed scripts in the last few weeks. As I have some experience with sed, at the moment I would prefer it. But if the job only needed to be done once rather than repeatedly, a text editor would suffice.” -- Master Foo and the Shell Tools (http://catb.org/~esr/writings/unix-koans/shell-tools.html)

Mojím dôležitým spoluatorom je časový stres. Dôležitý je aj stupeň naštvanosti, respektíve miera nadšenia. Keď sa to prvé stretne s jedným z ostatných dvoch, tak mi to ide. Keď nie, tak je to trápenie. -- Michal Kaščák, .týždeň - Sprievodca festivalom Bažant Pohoda 2012

Jednotlivec, ktorý vie robiť niečo, čo svet chce mať urobené, napokon prerazí bez ohľadu na rasu. -- Booker T. Washington

The day you find a job you love, is the last day you'll ever have to work. -- Damian Conway: Why I love my job (http://blogs.perl.org/users/damian_conway/2012/03/why-i-love-my-job.html)

Prežil som zas kúsok času, ošklivosť aj čistú krásu. -- Jaro Filip

O vláde neviem nič, ale viem, že Slovensko je krásna krajina s veľmi inteligentnými a dobre vzdelanými ľuďmi. Máte pred sebou skvelú budúcnosť. -- Paul Johnson (rozhovor pre .týždeň z 19.12.2011)

If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses. -- Henry Ford (http://anonymoushash.vmbrasseur.com/2011/11/16/its-about-needs/)

You see, I don't have a computer science degree from an elite university, or indeed any degree at all. I don't have any pretensions toward being a computer scientist, though I'm familiar with enough of the concepts and terminology to be able to work with them. -- SKUD: A note to Google recruiters (http://infotrope.net/2011/07/21/a-note-to-google-recruiters/) (2011)

... vedec sa manažment dokáže naučiť rýchlejšie ako podnikateľ vedu ... -- Vedec je tvorca tovaru (http://profit.etrend.sk/biznis/vedec-je-tvorca-tovaru-2.html)

Master Foo turned back to the neophyte. "The housecat may mock the tiger", said the master, "but doing so will not make his purr into a roar". -- Master Foo and the End User (http://catb.org/~esr/writings/unix-koans/end-user.html)

Ak sa spýtame, prostredníctvom ktorých inštitúcií dosahuje človek hlboké životné uspokojenie, odpoveď znie, že sú iba štyri: rodina, komunita, povolanie a viera. -- Charles Murray (sociálny vedec), Prečo sú ľudia šťastní (http://www.tyzden.sk/casopis/2011/15/preco-su-ludia-stastny.html)

Zasaď myšlienku, zožneš čin, zasaď čin, zožneš zvyk, zasaď zvyk, zožneš charakter, zasaď charakter, zožneš osud. -- staré anglické príslovie

- ''Prečo sa absolvent najlepšej právnickej školy sveta po zložení skúšok do newyorskej advokátskej komory nevyberie robiť kariéru do LA, Chicaga alebo New Yorku, ale vráti sa na Slovensko?'' Kvôli rodine, priateľom, tej zvláštnej zmesi kadidla a vlhkých stien, ktorú som od puberty nasával v Kapucínskom kostole, kvôli možnosti sadnúť pred domom na autobus a do polhodiny sa s kamarátmi stretnúť na terase v Bašte alebo v Depresse, kvôli intimite, ktorú prináša rozhovor v materinskom jazyku, spoločná minulosť a všetko to ostatné, čo tvorí vlasť nášho srdca. V skratke, kvôli pocitu, že doma je najlepšie a pre mňa je doma na Slovensku. [...] vždy dopredu hovorím klientom jedno: nasadím vo Váš prospech všetok um a energiu, ale pokútne pre Vás nič vybavovať nebudem. -- Radoslav Prochádzka (http://www.rodinka.sk/index.php?id=592736)

V hebrejskom chápaní sveta je život človeka podobný skúške a na jeho konci každý z nás dosiahne nejaký výsledok. Na základe neho človek bude alebo nebude vstave vstúpiť do "ekonómie božieho života". -- .dušan Jaura, .týždeň, 13.9.2010, str. 73

"Nemáš pri svojej práci pocit márnosti, že aj tak neovplyvníš to, ako študentov vyformovala rodina a priatelia?" Sčasti áno. Pomáham si takouto predstavou: si na kopci, fúka silný vietor a ty máš za úlohu zapáliť sviečku. Je celkom možné, že sa ti to nepodarí, ale nemal by si skončiť skôr, než škrtneš poslednou zápalkou... Navyše verím v zákon zachovania energie – nič z toho, čo dobré v živote urobíš, sa nestratí. -- Dušan Jaura, učiteľ zo C. S. Lewisa (http://www.bilgym.sk/new/?lan=sk&cln=655)

Vízia sa nedá naučiť v škole. Víziu musí mať človek v sebe a ak dostane šancu, mal by ju realizovať. Bez prvej podmienky je realizácia čohokoľvek len premárnenou šancou. -- Rudolf Zajac, .týždeň, 2.8.2010

The typical DBA life is like that of an airline pilot, “Long moments of boredom followed by small moments of sheer terror”, ... -- Oracle Concepts - Starting your Oracle Database (http://www.dba-oracle.com/concepts/starting_database.htm)

O tom, akým smerom sa bude človek uberať, väčšinou rozhoduje náhoda, šťastie, rodinné zázemie, respektíve schopnosť rodičov vystihnúť správny moment na „posunutie" dieťaťa. -- Juraj Čižmarovič, huslista (http://kultura.sme.sk/c/5143144/juraj-cizmarovic-preco-by-mi-mali-prekazat-snobi.html)

Considerate se questo è un uomo. Che lavora nel fango. Che non conosce pace. Che lotta per mezzo pane. Che muore per un sì o per un no. -- Primo Levi, Se questo è un uomo

Len zriedkakedy sa stáva, že slobodu stratíme celú naraz. -- David Hume (1711 - 1776)

Keď sa nedá urobiť nič rozumné a pragmatické, je čas robiť veci nerozumné a idealistické. Možno si pri tom človek viac nabije hubu, ale duša si na chvíľu zamáva krídlami. A to môže mať nedozerné účinky, všakáno. -- elena Akácsová, .týždeň 25.5.09

Talent je tá najvzácnejšia surovina, ktorou by sme nemali za žiadnych okolností mrhať. Talent a tvorivosť sú vzácne komodity a každá generácia ich prináša len obmedzené množstvo. Nemôžeme ich nijako vyrábať, aj keď udusiť ich môžeme tisícimi spôsobmi. -- Gottfried Schatz

Jadrom jeho politického konania je redukovanie politiky do podoby konzumenta, závislého od vrtkavých nálad populácie. Aj keď takejto politike chýba skutočné politické vedenie, nechýba jej dojem robustnosti v tom, ako okázalo uskutočňovať imaginárny záujem ľudu. -- Ľuboš Kubín, .týždeň (http://tyzden.sk/sk/kriticka_priloha/ficov_utok_na_november_%C2%B489_.php)

Prines svetlo a tma zmizne sama odseba. -- Erasmus Rotterdamský (1466 – 1538)

I am not a man with any special skill. But I've had plenty of experience in battles, losing battles, all of them. In short, that's all I am. -- Kanbê Shimada; Akira Kurosawa: Seven Samurai (1954)

Najlepší okamih pre zasadenie stromu bol pred dvadsiatimi rokmi. Druhý najlepší je teraz. -- Čínske príslovie

Ak je loď nasmerovaná zlým smerom, usilovnejšie veslovanie nepomôže. -- Kenichi Ohmae

Ľudia ktorí majú ciele uspejú, pretože vedia kam idú... Je to tak jednoduché. -- Earl Nightingale

I ten najpomalší, ak nestráca z očí cieľ, postupuje rýchlejšie než ten, kto sa ponáhľa bez cieľa. -- Lessing

Otrok: Všeličo by som dokázal, len keby mi to niekto rozkázal. -- K. Čapek

Peniaze nie sú nič, ak sú všetko, peniaze sú veľa, ak nie sú všetko. -- Hálek

Svet je stále preniknutý ružami šťastia, ale nikto o tom nevie. Šťastie spočíva vo vedomí, že všetko je veľký zvláštny sen... -- Jack Kerouac (2nd hand)

all i want to know are god's thoughts. the rest are details -- a.e.

Všetko na svete má strach z času, čas má strach len z pyramíd. -- Arabské príslovie

E credo che gli uomini che sanno qualcosa di sé, che vivono e si vedono vivere, si dividano in due grandi categorie: quelli che sanno che la ricchezza è morta ma bella e quelli che sanno che è bella ma morta. -- L. Sciascia (1921 – 1989): Candido (1977)

Koľko anjelov môže tancovať na hrote ihly a čím sa vlastne Boh zapodieval po všetky tie nekonečné veky pred stvorením? -- joseph heller: hlava XXII

Veda je hľadanie pravdy a nie vlastnenie poznania. -- vedecký filozof Karl Popper

Never, že si rýchlejšie naplníš brucho, ak nebudeš musieť plniť brucho iným. Niet ľudského tvora, čo by po tejto zemi kráčal sám. -- "černošský/africký spisovateľ" (nezapísal som si meno)

Okolo roku 2019 budeme mať v jedinom tisícdolárovom PC sústredený ekvivalent jedného ľudského mozgu, okolo roku 2030 bude mať jedno tisícdolárové PC výkon 1000 ľudských mozgov a okolo roku 2050 výkon 10^9 ľudských mozgov. -- Raymond C. Kurzweil (Quark 2/2000)

Ryby musia plávať. -- Petronius

"Tutto quello che vogliamo combattere fuori di noi" disse l'arciprete "è dentro di noi; e dentro di noi bisogna prima cercarlo e combatterlo..." -- L. Sciascia (1921 – 1989): Candido (1977)

Ho cercato di essere veloce, di essere leggero. Ma greve e il nostro tempo, assai greve. -- L. Sciascia (1921 – 1989): Candido (1977)

Noi siamo quello che facciamo. -- L. Sciascia (1921 – 1989): Candido (1977)

Il nostro corpo e il buon cane che guida il cieco. -- L. Sciascia (1921 – 1989): Candido (1977)

Se me frulla un pensiero che me scoccia me fermo e bevo e chiedo aiuto ar vino: poi me la canto e seguito er cammino con Destino in saccoccia. -- Trilussa (1871 – 1950)

Najmenej sa boja smrti tí, ktorých život má najväčšiu cenu. -- Kant

Ľudská bytosť je časťou celku, ktorý my nazývame Vesmír, časť ktorá je obmedzená v čase a priestore. Zažíva seba, svoje myšlienky a pocity, ako niečo oddelené od zvyšku – akýsi druh optického klamu vedomia. Tento klam je pre nás akýmsi druhom väzenia, obmedzujúcim nás na naše osobné túžby a náklonnosť pre niekoľko osôb v našej blízkosti. Našou úlohou musí by vyslobodiť sa z tohto väzenia, rozšírením okruhu našeho súcitu pre všetky žijúce bytosti a celú prírodu v jej kráse. -- Albert Einstein
